multithreading vs multiprocessing: what's the difference? source : https://towardsdatascience.com/multithreading-and-multiprocessing-in-10-minutes-20d9b3c6a867

By formal definition, multithreading refers to the ability of a processor to execute
multiple threads concurrently, where each thread runs a process. Whereas multiprocessing 
refers to the ability of a system to run multiple processors concurrently, where each processor
can run one or more threads.
From the diagram above, we can see that in multithreading (middle diagram), multiple threads
share the same code, data, and files but run on a different register and stack.
Multiprocessing (right diagram) multiplies a single processor — replicating the code,
data, and files, which incurs more overhead.
Note that using multithreading for CPU-bound processes might slow down performance due
to competing resources that ensure only one thread can execute at a time, and overhead is
incurred in dealing with multiple threads.

On the other hand, multiprocessing can be used for IO-bound processes.
However, overhead for managing multiple processes is higher than managing multiple threads as illustrated
above. You may notice that multiprocessing might lead to higher CPU utilization due
to multiple CPU cores being used by the program, which is expected.


How is memory in multithreading and multiprocessing?
Multi-threading gets around requiring additional memory because it relies on a shared memory
between threads. Shared memory removes the additional memory overhead but still incurs
the penalty of increased context switching. Multiprocessing is used to create a more reliable
system, whereas multithreading is used to create threads that run parallel to each other.
multithreading is quick to create and requires few resources, whereas multiprocessing requires
a significant amount of time and specific resources to create.
Is multithreading faster than multiprocessing?
Threads are faster to start than processes and also faster in task-switching. 
All Threads share a process memory pool that is very beneficial. Takes lesser time to create a new thread 
in the existing process than a new process.